+++
title = "KRAS-IRF2 Axis Drives Immune Suppression and Immune Therapy Resistance in Colorectal Cancer"
date = 2019-03-20T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Wenting Liao", "Michael J. Overman", "...", "**Ming Tang** et.al"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Cancer Cell*, Cancer Cell."
publication_short = "In *Cancer Cell*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The biological functions and mechanisms of oncogenic KRASG12D(KRAS) in resistance to immune check-point blockade (ICB) therapy are not fully understood. We demonstrate that KRAS* represses the expressionof interferon regulatory factor 2 (IRF2), which in turn directly represses CXCL3 expression. KRAS*-mediatedrepression of IRF2 results in high expression of CXCL3, which binds to CXCR2 on myeloid-derived suppres-sor cells and promotes their migration to the tumor microenvironment. Anti-PD-1 resistance of KRAS-ex-pressing tumors can be overcome by enforced IRF2 expression or by inhibition of CXCR2. Colorectal cancer(CRC) showing higher IRF2 expression exhibited increased responsiveness to anti-PD-1 therapy. The KRAS-IRF2-CXCL3-CXCR2 axis provides a framework for patient selection and combination therapies to enhancethe effectiveness of ICB therapy in CRC"

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = ["example-external-project.md"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "files/papers/KRAS_IRF2.pdf"
# url_preprint = "#"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "headers/IRF2_KRAS.png"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
