+++
title = "Fast alignment and preprocessing of chromatin profiles with Chromap"
date = 2021-11-12T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Haowen Zhang *", "Li Song *", "...", "**Ming Tang** et.al."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Nature Communications*, Nature Communications."
publication_short = "In *Nature Communications*"
# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "As sequencing depth of chromatin studies continually grows deeper for sensitive profiling of regulatory elements or chromatin spatial structures, aligning and preprocessing of these sequencing data have become the bottleneck for analysis. Here we present Chromap, an ultrafast method for aligning and preprocessing high throughput chromatin profiles. Chromap is comparable to BWA-MEM and Bowtie2 in alignment accuracy and is over 10 times faster than traditional workflows on bulk ChIP-seq/Hi-C profiles and than 10x Genomics’ CellRanger v2.0.0 pipeline on single-cell ATAC-seq profiles."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = ["example-external-project.md"]

# Links (optional).
#url_pdf = "files/papers/Melanoma_chromatin_state.pdf"
# url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "https://github.com/crazyhottommy/pyflow-ChIPseq"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Paper Link", url = "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-26865-w"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/Melanoma_chromatin_state.png"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
