+++
title = "Comprehensive Characterizations of Immune Receptor Repertoire in Tumors and Cancer Immunotherapy Studies"
date = 2022-07-01T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Li Song", "Zhangyi Ouyang", "...", "**Ming Tang** et.al."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Cancer Immunology Research*,Cancer Immunology Research."
publication_short = "In *Cancer Immunology Research*"
# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "We applied our computational algorithm TRUST4 to assemble immune receptor (T-cell receptor/B-cell receptor) repertoires from approximately 12,000 RNA sequencing samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas and seven immunotherapy studies. From over 35 million assembled complete complementary-determining region 3 sequences, we observed that the expression of CCL5 and MZB1 is the most positively correlated genes with T-cell clonal expansion and B-cell clonal expansion, respectively. We analyzed amino acid evolution during B-cell receptor somatic hypermutation and identified tyrosine as the preferred residue. We found that IgG1+IgG3 antibodies together with FcRn were associated with complement-dependent cytotoxicity and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity or phagocytosis. In addition to B-cell infiltration, we discovered that B-cell clonal expansion and IgG1+IgG3 antibodies are also correlated with better patient outcomes. Finally, we created a website, VisualizIRR, for users to interactively explore and visualize the immune repertoires in this study."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = ["example-external-project.md"]

# Links (optional).
#url_pdf = "files/papers/Melanoma_chromatin_state.pdf"
# url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "https://github.com/crazyhottommy/pyflow-ChIPseq"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Paper Link", url = "https://aacrjournals.org/cancerimmunolres/article-abstract/10/7/788/705256/Comprehensive-Characterizations-of-Immune-Receptor"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/Melanoma_chromatin_state.png"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
