+++
title = "Tutorial: integrative computational analysis of bulk RNA-sequencing data to characterize tumor immunity using RIMA"
date = 2023-06-30T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Lin Yang", "Jin Wang", "...", "**Ming Tang** et.al."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Nature Protocols*,Nature Protocols."
publication_short = "In *Nature Protocols*"
# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) has become an increasingly cost-effective technique for molecular profiling and immune characterization of tumors. In the past decade, many computational tools have been developed to characterize tumor immunity from gene expression data. However, the analysis of large-scale RNA-seq data requires bioinformatics proficiency, large computational resources and cancer genomics and immunology knowledge. In this tutorial, we provide an overview of computational analysis of bulk RNA-seq data for immune characterization of tumors and introduce commonly used computational tools with relevance to cancer immunology and immunotherapy. These tools have diverse functions such as evaluation of expression signatures, estimation of immune infiltration, inference of the immune repertoire, prediction of immunotherapy response, neoantigen detection and microbiome quantification. We describe the RNA-seq IMmune Analysis (RIMA) pipeline integrating many of these tools to streamline RNA-seq analysis. We also developed a comprehensive and user-friendly guide in the form of a GitBook with text and video demos to assist users in analyzing bulk RNA-seq data for immune characterization at both individual sample and cohort levels by using RIMA"

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = ["example-external-project.md"]

# Links (optional).
#url_pdf = "files/papers/Melanoma_chromatin_state.pdf"
# url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "https://github.com/crazyhottommy/pyflow-ChIPseq"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Paper Link", url = "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41596-023-00841-8"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/Melanoma_chromatin_state.png"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
